Data plugin README (#78750)
elastic/kibana: src/plugins/data/README.md

# data

The `data` plugin provides common data access services for solutions and application developers.

## Autocomplete

> The autocomplete service can provide suggestions for field names and field values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The autocomplete service provides suggestions for field names and values.
```

> It is pre-wired into the `TopNavMenu` component, but can be used independently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is wired into the `TopNavMenu` component, but can be used independently.
```

### Fetch Query Suggestions

> The `getQuerySuggestions` helps to construct a query. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getQuerySuggestions` function helps to construct a query. 
```

> KQL suggestion functions are registered in x-pack, so this API won't return results in OSS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KQL suggestion functions are registered in X-Pack, so this API does not return results in OSS.
```

```.ts

    // `inputValue` is the user input
    const querySuggestions = await autocomplete.getQuerySuggestions({
        language: 'kuery',
        indexPatterns: [indexPattern],
        query: inputValue,
    });

```

### Fetch Value Suggestions

> The `getValueSuggestions` returns suggestions for possible field values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getValueSuggestions` function returns suggestions for field values.
```

> This is helpful when you want to provide a user with options to choose from, for example when constructing a filter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is helpful when you want to provide a user with options, for example when constructing a filter. 
```

```.ts

    // `inputValue` is the user input
    const valueSuggestions = await autocomplete.getValueSuggestions({
      indexPattern,
      field,
      query: inputValue,
    });

```

## Field Formats

Coming soon.

## Index Patterns

Coming soon.

## Query

> The query service is responsible for managing the configuration of a search query (`QueryState`): filters, timerange and query string, as well as other settings such as the auto refresh behavior and saved queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query service is responsible for managing the configuration of a search query (`QueryState`): filters, time range, query string, and settings such as the auto refresh behavior and saved queries.
```

It contains sub-services for each of those configurations:
 - `data.query.filterManager` - Manages the `filters` component of a `QueryState`. The global filter state (filters that are persisted between applications) are owned by this service.

>  - `data.query.timefilter` - Responsible for the time range filter as well as the auto refresh behavior settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `data.query.timefilter` - Responsible for the time range filter and the auto refresh behavior settings.
```

 - `data.query.queryString` - Responsible for the query string and query language settings.

>  - `data.query.savedQueries` - This sub-service is responsible for persisting a `QueryState` into a `SavedObject`, so it can be restored and re-used by other applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `data.query.savedQueries` - This sub-service is responsible for persisting a `QueryState` into a `SavedObject`, so it can be restored and used by other applications.
```

>  - `data.query.savedQueries` - This sub-service is responsible for persisting a `QueryState` into a `SavedObject`, so it can be restored and re-used by other applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `data.query.savedQueries` - Responsible for persisting a `QueryState` into a `SavedObject`, so it can be restored and re-used by other applications.
```

 Any changes to the `QueryState` are published on the `data.query.state$`, which is useful when wanting to persist global state or run a search upon data changes.

>  A simple use case would be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 A simple use case is:
```

 ```.ts
 function searchOnChange(indexPattern: IndexPattern, aggConfigs: AggConfigs) {
    data.query.state$.subscribe(() => {

        // Constuct the query portion of the search request
        const query = data.query.getEsQuery(indexPattern);
        
        // Construct a request
        const request = {
            params: {
                index: indexPattern.title,
                body: {
                    aggs: aggConfigs.toDsl(),
                    query,
                },
            },
        };

        // Search with the `data.query` config
        const search$ = data.search.search(request);

        ...
    });
 }

 ```

## Search

> Provides access to Elasticsearch using the high level `SearchSource` API or low level `Search Strategies`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provides access to Elasticsearch using the high-level `SearchSource` API or low-level `Search Strategies`.
```

### SearchSource

> The `SearchSource` API is a convenient way to construct and run an Elasticsearch search query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `SearchSource` API is a convenient way to construct and run an Elasticsearch search query.
```

```.tsx

    const searchSource = await data.search.searchSource.create();
    const searchResponse = await searchSource

>       .setParent(undefined)

Reviewer 2: Nit: Add a short explanation of how search source inherits from the root search source (global time filter) by default and explain that this overrides that default behavior

      .setField('index', indexPattern)
      .setField('filter', filters)
      .fetch();

```

> ### Low level search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Low-level search
```

#### Default Search Strategy

> One benefit of using the low level search API, is partial response support in X-Pack, allowing for a better and more responsive user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One benefit of using the low-level search API, is partial response support in X-Pack, allowing for a better and more responsive user experience.
```

> One benefit of using the low level search API, is partial response support in x-pack, allowing for better and more responsive user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One benefit of using the low level search API, is partial response support in X-Pack, allowing for a better and more responsive user experience.
```

> In OSS only the final result is returned. 

Reviewer 2: Nit: Add a note about how we also apply defaults from advanced settings/config.yml so that the consumer doesn't need to worry about these
